So, I'm gonna say npm
install -D eslint-plugin-react.
>> Brian Holt: There's just several things
that we kinda want eslint to guard against
with React,
there's just some common patterns.
It's funny, I can't even really tell you
what they are anymore, because eslint has
bloodied me over the years that I've
forgotten how to do the bad things,
which is probably what you want.
Submission by error.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, that's what we're
gonna go fix right now, yeah, Marc.
>> Marc: Apart from class and className,
are there any gotchas when it comes
to JSX that we should be aware of?
>> Brian Holt: The other big one
that comes to mind is "for", right,
thinking about labels, right?
Label for this input, right?
"For" is also a reserved word in
JavaScript for for loops, right?
So you have to do, instead of, let's
say we had, I don't know, a label here.
>> Brian Holt: You can see it
generates it for you, htmlFor, right?
And that's just to disambiguate
it from for loops.
That's the other one that comes to mind
that I actually remember off the top
of my head.
I think there are a couple more, but
they're much more rare than those two.
>> Brian Holt: Other than that,
>> Brian Holt: No, there is another one.
If you do input, this is valid HTML,
it is not valid at JSX.
You have to put
the self-closing tag on there,
it's just how JSX is sure to
keep track of things, right?
JSX is designed to not be
as forgiving as a browser,
which I think is generally a benefit,
right?
So anything that's self-closing just
make sure that you put that last
slash in there,
even though that it's valid JavaScript,
it's not technically valid JSX.
Okay, so we installed npm
eslint-plugin-react@7.37.1 there.
Please open your eslint.config.
We're going to import a eslint, or
sorry, what do we call it here?
>> Brian Holt: reactPlugin from
eslint-plugin-react.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
we're gonna add one more,
let's get rid of this,
one more config object under this.
>> Brian Holt: And that needs a comma,
and we're gonna add our
react config into this.
So we're gonna say,
...reactPlugin.configs.flat.recommended.
Again, spread operator, this is just
saying merge these two objects together,
give me the union of the two, but we're
going to overwrite the settings of it.
And we're gonna say
react:version,
>> Brian Holt: detect,
this one kind of annoys me,
it is necessary,
I don't know why this isn't the default.
The eslint plugin wants to know the
version of React that you're working with,
that tracks, right?
It makes sense that you would want to be
linting for version 19 versus version 16,
they're quite different, right?
There's some difference there, and
they have a really cool feature.
It's like, hey, look at my
package.json and use that, okay?
Just always do that, right,
that's always what I want you to do,
there's never not the time that I
don't want you to do that, anyway.
Thank you for writing free and open-source
software that I get to use, but
I'm cranky and I don't wanna do
that every single time, but you do.
Anyway, this is what you have
to do every single time.
>> Brian Holt: So [COUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Yep,
and we need one more here underneath that,
we need a reactPlugin.configs.flat,
one called jsx-runtime.
>> Brian Holt: This one is the one
that will fix the error around not
importing React, right?
Cuz otherwise, it's gonna be like,
I expect React and React is not here.
Make sure you added jsx here
if you did not previously,
otherwise it will not lint your jsx files,
which is kinda the damn point.
And then, after language options here,
let's add some rules.
Oops, yeah, rules.
>> Brian Holt: The reason we put rules
here and not in one of these other two,
otherwise, you'll overwrite
their rules configs.
These new eslint configurations
are tricky, right?
So, anyway,
the order becomes extremely important.
So, react has two really
annoying default rules,
and we're just gonna turn them off
cuz I don't wanna deal with it.
No unescaped-entities.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
it forces you to do weird, it wants you to
directly escape hyphens and
ampersands in your code.
I don't wanna do that,
I want my tools to do that for me.
So I turn that off always and
then react/prop-types.
I don't know why this one still exists,
there used to be a thing called
prop-types, that as soon as
TypeScript became a thing,
just instantly went away
as being useful at all.
But it's still the default that it's on,
I don't get that either.
So, just to drive home,
if you don't have this, you can't write
single quotes inside of your strings,
you have to write, what is it?
And apos, right?
You have to write that
instead of writing that.
And after doing that twice,
I was like, yeah, this shit's for
the birds, I'm not doing it [LAUGH].
So, that's why we're turning that one off.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, I think we can
leave eslint alone for a while now.
Yea, if you're wondering about flat,
that's the new style of configuration for
eslint 9.
These are flat configs,
which is where that flat word comes from.
Okay, let's go convert app.js now.
So first thing,
rename this file to app.jsx.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, we're gonna delete
the react import cuz we talked about that.
Import pizza from pizza, we did that and
let's make this a bit
more nice-looking app.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, return,
>> Brian Holt: div,
>> Brian Holt: ,
we're gonna call that Padre Gino's - Order Now,
I could just do that in
normal and so it doesn't highlight it.
>> Brian Holt: And
then we're gonna do a pizza component,
>> Brian Holt: Like this,
name=Pepperoni.
>> Brian Holt: Description=,
>> Brian Holt: Pep,
cheese, stuff, again, self-closing.
So one thing to call out here,
notice that this is h1, lowercase, h1.
Notice this is P, Pizza.
I don't do this just by convention,
it's actually required in JSX and React.
The lowercase means this is literally
a DOM tag that I would like you to
render just like this, right?
So if I have x-my-webcomponent,
>> Brian Holt: This
means it's gonna expect to actually
render that because this is lowercase.
>> Brian Holt: Whereas the P,
let's this knows like this is actually
a synthetic one that I've created, right?
And so, you have to name these uppercase.
So, one is both useful just from
like at a glance to be able to tell
what's a DOM component versus what's
a React component that I've created.
And it's required by the tools.
>> Brian Holt: You can see, just like
you give this, like a class name or
something like that, right?
You can pass in properties, just like
as if they were like DOM properties.
It's meant to mimic kind of
the same kind of way of doing it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
let's make a few more of this,
>> Brian Holt: Hawaiian,
>> Brian Holt: ham, pineapple.
>> Brian Holt: And this was,
>> Brian Holt: french fries.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: Then this one down here,
instead of having
React.createElement(app), we're
just gonna do App, like that, okay?
Save that, one more thing to do,
go look in your index.html and
we renamed the file, so
we have to put the "x" there, right?
See if you're gonna run our project now,
npm run dev, have this open Padre Gino's.
>> Brian Holt: This was wrong,
so 5173, and
you can see, everything still works.
>> Brian Holt: Pretty cool, right?